# Division of Polymeric Science and Engineering


Understanding the nanoscopic pore structure of a hexagonal phase lyotropic liquid crystal membrane
%MRS: title? Make it clear what you are looking at. 

%MRS: Talk about structural details at the nanoscale.  I think what
  they will find most interesting is using 2D WAXS to find out what
  the possible pores are, and then using the molecular details to find
  out what the pore must be like.

Nanostructured polymer membranes offer the ability to control pore
architecture at the atomic length scale. Lyotropic liquid crystals
(LLCs) are a class of nanostructured materials that can be modified,
assembled and crosslinked into stable membranes with uniform, straight
pores that can perform solute-specific separations. Pore diameters on
the order of 1 nm make LLC membranes well-suited for aqueous
separations such as desalination and biorefinement. 

%MRS: maybe emphasize use of XRAY and MD together to understand the
 nanopore structure.

We've matched X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns generated from equilibrated atomistic molecular 
dynamics simulation trajectories to experimental 2D wide angle X-ray scattering (WAXS)
patterns in order to gain a detailed picture of the LLC membrane nanopores. Using this approach, we created
a structural model that is maximally consistent with experimental WAXS by matching reciprocal space motifs
to real space configurations. We learned the
density of monomers that pack around pore cylinders. We have evidence to support that aromatic monomer head
groups pi-pi stack on top of each other in a sandwiched, rather than parallel displaced, configuration. We show that
the long alkane tails of each monomer pack into hexagonal arrays with short range order. 
We also observed alternate metastable configurations, stable for 100s of nanoseconds, but whose simulated XRD patterns are distinct from experiment. 
By studying the system in real space, we observe
that the pores are not idealistic cylinders, but rather consist of a gradient in
composition transitioning from hydrophilic cores to hydrophobic tail regions.
We use cross-sections of 3D correlation functions to assess the degree of ordering in our system and to
compare it to experimentally measured values. We calculate the nematic order parameter and the correlation
length of monomer columns in order to quantify the degree of ordering along the system's pore axis.
Using our detailed model of the membrane pores we will be able to study the transport of
small charged and uncharged molecules within them with confidence that the 
chemical environment is a close match to the real system.

%MRS: this stuff is not that interesting; more introduction than
 abstract. Doesn't really describe problems or findings.

%MRS: talk about the nature of the pore, how there is not a CLEAN
 pore, I think that will be interesting to them.  Right now, there are
 no real findings. Put in findings (can qualify as preliminary), and
 can discuss difficulties. But have details.

