# COMSEF -- poster

Title : The influence of pore structure on transport in lyotropic liquid crystal membranes

We study a lyotropic liquid crystal (LLC) system atomistically using molecular
dynamics simulations. LLC's are a class of nanostructured materials that can be
modified, assembled and crosslinked into stable membranes with uniform straight
pores which can perform solute specific separations and offer the ability to
control pore architecture at the atomic lengthscale. Pore diameters on the
order of 1 nm make LLC membranes well-suited for aqueous separations such as
desalination and biorefinement. A molecular model which is consistent with
experimentally measured structural features and material properties can provide
a link between monomer structure and macroscopic separation performance. We
have used simulations with experimental data to create such a model. We've
matched X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns generated from equilibrated atomistic
molecular dynamics simulation trajectories to experimental 2D wide angle X-ray
scattering (WAXS) patterns in order to gain a detailed picture of the LLC
membrane nanopores. We learned the density of monomers that pack around pore
cylinders. We have evidence to support that aromatic monomer head groups pi-pi
stack on top of each other in a sandwiched, rather than parallel displaced,
configuration. We show that the long alkane tails of each monomer pack into
hexagonal arrays with short range order. We see that the pores are not
idealistic cylinders, but rather consist of a gradient in composition
transitioning from hydrophilic cores to hydrophobic tail regions. Using our
detailed model of the membrane pores we are able to study the transport of
molecules within them with confidence that the chemical environment closely
models the real system. We will present the transport rates and mechanisms of a
series of neutral solutes with various hydrodynamic radii. With a clear
understanding of mechanisms of transport in these complex self-assembled
systems, one can choose monomers to achieve specific separation goals. We can
use this information to draw correlations between pore structure and selective
preferences. These studies will help guide monomer choice for
separation-specific objectives.

