# Fundamental Research in Transport Processes

Session Description: 

This session supports fundamental research in all manner of transport
processes. Both experimental and theoretical investigations are welcome.
Special consideration is given to work on coupled transport processes that may
not be adequately served by other, more focused sessions

%MRS: probably overspecalized.  "in pores of nanostructured lyotropic liquid crystal membrane" is specific enough a title.
Title : Understanding transport of small solutes in the pores of a
crosslinked hexagonal phase lyotropic liquid crystal membrane

Lyotropic liquid crystals (LLCs) are amphiphilic molecules that have the ability to
form ordered nanostructures. When combined with ~10 wt % water, the liquid
crystalline monomer, NA-GA3C11, forms the inverted hexagonal (HII) phase which
is characterized by uniform-sized, sub-nm, straight hydrophilic pores. This
geometry is ideal for transport in aqueous membrane separation processes. With a
complete understanding of the mechanisms that govern transport of small
solutes within these nanopores, we can modify LLC monomers in order to tune
the size and chemical environment of the pores for solute-specific separations.

%MRS: suggest paragraph break here.
%MRS suggest cut this word - better to let work stand on itself than give timeline.
%Previously,
We have used molecular dynamics simulations in order to form a
detailed atomistic model of this system by maximizing its consistency with
experimental observables such as 2D wide angle X-ray scattering patterns and
ionic conductivity measurements. Using our 
%MRS: added word
atomistically 
detailed model, we study the
transport mechanisms of a range of neutral solutes within the pores. 
%MRS: I'd just say we calculate the diffusion constant along the pore, and examine the mechanism for changes in rates of diffusion.
We measure
the mean square displacement (MSD) of each molecule in order to understand each
solute's diffusive behavior in the pores versus in bulk. We 
%MRS: add
also
%run 
calculate the 
potential of
mean force (PMF) 
%simulations 
%in conjuction with 
using umbrella sampling 
%in order 
to construct free energy profiles
along the pore
%MRS: if done correctly, it is independent of the way it passes through the pore, i.e. not really pulling. 
%as we pull each solute through the pores. 
We use this information to identify bottlenecks in membrane design 
%MRS: maybe just to understand selectivity based on both size and chemical details of the solute?
that limit its
permeance and selectivity towards solutes so that we can suggest new LLC monomer
structures to be tested experimentally. 
