# Nanostructured and Self-Assembled Polymer Membranes

Session description: 

Soft materials that self-assemble into regular, periodic nanostructures, such
as block copolymers, liquid crystals, and layer-by-layer films, provide several
opportunities to design and fabricate superior next generation membranes. These
membranes can be deployed in traditional settings such as in separation
processes and as protective barrier coatings as well as in novel applications
(e.g, controlled release technologies). This session is dedicated to
theoretical, computational, and experimental research that investigates 1) how
to process self-assembled materials into functional membranes, 2) the
development of fundamental structure-property relationships, and 3) the
performance of next-generation membranes in operation."

Title : Understanding the nanoscopic pore structure of a hexagonal phase lyotropic
liquid crystal membrane

Nanostructured polymer membranes offer the ability to control pore architecture
at the atomic length scale. Lyotropic liquid crystals (LLCs) are a class of
nanostructured materials that can be modified, assembled and crosslinked into
stable membranes with uniform, straight pores that can perform solute-specific
separations. Pore diameters on the order of 1 nm make LLC membranes well-suited
for aqueous separations such as desalination and biorefinement. 
We have matched X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns generated from equilibrated
atomistic molecular dynamics simulation trajectories to experimental 2D wide
angle X-ray scattering (WAXS) patterns in order to gain a detailed picture of
the LLC membrane nanopores. Using this approach, we created a structural model
that is maximally consistent with experimental WAXS by matching reciprocal
space motifs to real space configurations. We have identified the density of
monomers that pack around pore cylinders. We have evidence to support that
aromatic monomer head groups pi-pi stack on top of each other in a sandwiched,
rather than parallel displaced, configuration. We show that the long alkane
tails of each monomer pack into hexagonal arrays with short range order.  We
also observed alternate metastable configurations, stable for 100s of
nanoseconds, but whose simulated XRD patterns are distinct from experiment.  By
studying the system in real space, we observe that the pores are not ideal
cylinders, but rather consist of a gradient in composition transitioning from
hydrophilic cores to hydrophobic tail regions.  We use cross-sections of 3D
correlation functions to assess the degree of ordering in our system and to
compare it to experimentally measured values. We calculate the nematic order
parameter and the correlation length of monomer columns in order to quantify
the degree of ordering along the system's pore axis. Using our detailed model
of the membrane pores we will be able to study the transport of small charged
and uncharged molecules within them with confidence that the chemical
environment is a close match to the real system.

