

Engineering Sciences and Fundamentals : Fundamental Research in Transport Processes

This session supports fundamental research in all manner of transport
processes. Both experimental and theoretical investigations are welcome.
Special consideration is given to work on coupled transport processes that may
not be adequately served by other, more focused sessions.

Engineering Sciences and Fundamentals : Effects of Confinement on Molecular Properties

Confinement in nanostructures like adsorbent and membrane pores often leads to
novel thermodynamic, transport and reaction properties. This session welcomes
computational and experimental studies that explore these behaviors. 

Separations Division : Charged Polymers for Membrane-Based Water and Energy Applications

Experimental, modeling, and/or theoretical papers focused on charged or
ion-containing polymer membranes/membrane materials for water purification
(e.g., membrane separations) and/or energy generation/storage applications
(e.g., salinity gradient energy, battery, and/or fuel cell membranes) are
desired. Topics of interest include, but are not limited to, water and/or ion
transport characterization and modeling, water-polymer interactions,
ion-polymer interactions, the influence of polymer structure and morphology on
transport properties, and the effects of polymer processing and/or membrane
formation conditions on material and membrane properties.

Separations Division / Membrane-Based Separations - Highly Selective Separations with Membranes

This session covers molecular scale separations approaches using membranes. 

Separations Divsion/Membrane-Based Separations / Polymers (08A) - Nanostructured and Self-Assembled Polymer Membranes

Soft materials that self-assemble into regular, periodic nanostructures, such
as block copolymers, liquid crystals, and layer-by-layer films, provide several
opportunities to design and fabricate superior next generation membranes. These
membranes can be deployed in traditional settings such as in separation
processes and as protective barrier coatings as well as in novel applications
(e.g, controlled release technologies). This session is dedicated to
theoretical, computational, and experimental research that investigates 1) how
to process self-assembled materials into functional membranes, 2) the
development of fundamental structure-property relationships, and 3) the
performance of next-generation membranes in operation.

COMSEF Poster Session

 
