  Periodic, nanostructured porous polymer membranes made from the cross-linked
inverted hexagonal phase of self-assembled lyotropic liquid crystals (LLCs) are
a promising class of materials for selective aqueous separations. The wide
design space available for liquid crystal monomer design can lead to a variety
of complex chemical topologies with unique selective preferences. Currently, 
the mechanisms of selectivity in these membranes is poorly understood which
has hindered our ability to design them for solute-specific separations. In
this work, we use atomistic molecular dynamics simulations in order to gain a
more complete understanding of nanoscopic membrane structure and solute dynamics.

First, we ensure that we are properly modeling the chemical environment within
the pores. After determining the optimal build parameters, we refine the 
membrane structure in order to ensure maximum consistent with experimental 
2D wide angle X-ray scattering data.  

We show that there is a gradual rather than abrupt transition from
the hydrophilic pore region to hydrophobic monomer tail region. We simulated
X-ray diffraction patterns in order ensure our structure is maximally
consistent with experimental 2D wide angle X-ray scattering data 

Using our most experimentally-consistent structural model, we observe transport
of 20 small polar solutes within the membrane pores We find that the transport
of a species is dependent not only on molecular size, but on chemical
functionality as well. We observe that all solutes perform intermittent hops
between lengthy periods of entrapment. Three different trapping mechanisms are
responsible for this behavior. First, solutes that drift out of the pore can
become entangled among the dense monomer tails.  Second, solutes can donate
hydrogen bonds to the monomer head groups. Third, solutes can coordinate with
sodium counter ions. The degree to which a solute is affected by each mechanism
is dependent on the chemical functionality of the solute.

Finally, we explore two different formulations of stochastic models that can be
used to further our mecahnistic understanding and to project solute behavior on
macroscopic timescales. Our first model, based on the anomalous diffusion
literature, treats solute dyanamics as a fractional motion process subordinate
to a continuous time random walk.  Our second model applies the infinite hidden
Markov model to solute trajectories in order to automatically identify an
unknown number of distinct dynamical modes as well as the probabilities of
transitions between them.  We demonstrate how one can use these models to
estimate flux of a solute across a macroscopic-length pore and, based on those
quantities, the membrane's selectivity towards each solute.  This work helps to
connect microscopic chemically-dependent solute motions that do not follow
simple diffusive behavior with macroscopic membrane performance.

