# Division of Computers in Chemistry

Nanostructured membranes offer the ability to control pore architecture
at the atomic lengthscale. Lyotropic liquid crystals (LLC) are a class 
of nanostructured materials that can be modified, assembled and 
crosslinked into stable membranes which can perform solute specific 
separations. Self-assembled LLC membranes can form the HII phase, 
which is characterized by hexagonally packed, hydrophilic, aligned, 
cylindrical pore regions. Pore diameters on the order of 1 nm make LLC
membranes well suited for aqueous separations such as desalination 
and biorefinement. 
%MRS: Too much introduction in the abstract above.  Cut to the chase sooner.
For the first time, to our knowledge, the complex
%MRS: there is not a single LLC system, so we can't say "the complex LLC system"
LLC system is being studied atomistically using molecular dynamics 
simulations. 
%MRS: PSCE doesn't care about computer programs, they care about what you discover -- this is more appropriate for COMP.
%MRS: also, don't talk about your intention, but what you have discovered so far (or what you feel pretty sure you will have done by this summer. 
Our intention is to create a python based platform for the 
directed design of separation specific LLC membranes. An iterative
approach of simulation and experiment will help us reduce the large 
chemical design space available for LLC monomer design to a smaller 
subset of optimal structures. Monomer selection will be based on our
understanding of the molecular level transport mechanisms governing 
movement of solutes through the pores and how it relates to macroscopic
observables such as permeability and rejection. To date, our focus has been on 
creating a molecular model which is consistent with experimentally 
measured structural features and material properties. We have developed
methods to simulate the crosslinking mechanism and to measure ionic
conductivity from atomistic simulations. Simulated X-ray diffraction 
(XRD) patterns based on atomic coordinates generate 1D and 2D simulated
XRD patterns containing all major features present experimentally. Using
%MRS: focus on the finding so far, like below. -- see the seed grant for my
 thoughts about what is interesting to people who study these systems.
%MRS: talk some more about 
%1. the implications of the different geometries on transport.
%2.  Talk about matching to X-ray diffraction.
%3.  Say you will present transport (I feel confident we will get there by august), but you can just say you compare
%transport between them.
%4. You can talk a little bit about the potential of MD to answer questions 
our methods to characterize the molecular model, we have discovered an
additional metastable state which may form under certain experimental
conditions. Each configuration gives different structural properties but
persists for simulations longer than 500 nanoseconds. Free energy 
calculations will make it clear which state is favored and contribute to
synthetic guidelines. Through our efforts, we have created a model that
is consistent with experiment and have developed methods that generalize
our model for use with any other HII phase forming monomer, providing
the basis to achieve our ultimate goal of directed LLC membrane design.

