# Division of Polymeric Science and Engineering

Nanostructured membranes offer the ability to control pore architecture
at the atomic length scale. Lyotropic liquid crystals (LLC) are a class 
of nanostructured materials that can be modified, assembled and 
crosslinked into stable membranes with uniform straight pores that can
perform solute-specific separations. Pore diameters on the order of 1 nm
make LLC membranes well-suited for aqueous separations such as desalination 
and biorefinement.  However, without a clear understanding of mechanisms 
of transport in these complex self-assembled systems, it is challenging to 
choose momoners to achieve specific separations goals.

To advance our knowledge of transport in these systems, 
%MRS:
%in order to choose monomers for 
%thus teaching us how to better design monomers, 
we have studied an
experimentally 
%MRS:
%known 
characterized model
system using molecular dynamics simulations in order 
to develop a predictive model for membrane design. 
%To date, our focus has
We have created 
%been on creating 
a molecular model which is maximally consistent with experimentally
measured structural features and material properties, and examined solute 
transport in through the pores. We have developed methods to simulate
the crosslinking mechanism, simulate X-ray diffraction (XRD) patterns and to
measure ionic conductivity from atomistic simulations.

%Simulating X-ray
%diffraction patterns has enhanced our understanding of the system's
%microscopic structure. 

By matching simulated and experimental 2D WAXS patterns,
we have discovered an additional metastable state, mainly characterized
by its pore structure, which may form under certain experimental conditions.
The first state has a condensed, narrow pore with high radial disorder.
Although stable out to 100's of nanoseconds, the XRD pattern does not match experimental results.
The second, whose XRD pattern gives a good match to experiment, is noticeably
more open with aromatic rings stacked in a parallel displaced conformation. 
Other theorized pore arrangements are not stable in simulation.
The difference in pore structure 
%will surely 
affects the mechanism by which
solutes diffuse across the membrane directly impacting macroscopic fluxes and
% BJC: I'm having trouble phrasing the following since its something I haven't
% actually done yet. Do I say "I will do this before the conference" or
% "I did do this" or "I am doing this"?
solute rejections. 
%We compare transport in each configuration to see 
which will result in a high performance membrane. 
We examine transport of 
water, monovalent and divalent ions, and a range of small polar molecules
with a range of hydrodynamic radii. 
These studies can help guide the choice of monomer for specific separations objectives.
%These studies provide a clear answer 
%to which state should be synthesized. 
%Our simulations can advise 
%experimentalists on which synthetic conditions result in the desired state.

 LocalWords:  Nanostructured Lyotropic LLC nanostructured crosslinked solute
 LocalWords:  desalination biorefinement crosslinking XRD WAXS solutes BJC
 LocalWords:  monovalent
